# November 7th, 2019

## Things discovered

* [Master the 5 Whys Method for Problem-Solving as a Developer](https://dev.to/danilapetrova/master-the-five-whys-method-for-problem-solving-as-a-developer-3hi9)
   * the five whys method is one of the most useful tools for in-depth Root Cause Analysis (RCA)
   * origin of the method lays with the basis of Toyota’s scientific approach
   * isolate the cause of the issue and target it precisely
   * Example
      * **Issue**: I dropped the phone on the lane on my left. It got ran over by a car. Twice. Now it is unusable
      * **Question**: Why did I drop my phone?, **Answer**: Because I pumped the brake too suddenly after the light turned green. To hold onto the handlebar, for better control, I had to drop my phone and it fell on the middle lane.
      * **Question**: Why did I pump the break too suddenly?, **Answer**: Because I sped up too quickly when the light turned green and had the potential to lose control of the Lime and hurt myself.
      * **Question**: Why did I speed up too quickly? **Answer**: Because I pushed the starter to the end at once, instead of gradually accelerating.
      * **Question**: Why did I push the starter too hard? **Answer**: Because I was not fully familiar with the mechanism of electric scooters. I had never used one on full speed before. I was not aware that pressing the switch all the way down at once, gets the vehicle to the maximum speed immediately, rather than slowly accelerating.
      * **Question**: Why was I not fully familiar with the mechanism of electric scooters? **Answer**: Because I did not take the time to test it out with all its functionality before introducing my phone as a GPS to the equation.
      * **Root Cause**: I was too impatient. I did not take the time to get fully accustomed to the Lime before introducing a distraction. By adding too many new elements at once I ended up sacrificing my phone for the sake of safety.


## Additional attachments



